=head1 NAME

BZK (Boot Zedol) - Simple & Stupid Boot ROM Monitor

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item B<d>[B<ump>] [I<segment>B<:>][I<offset>] [I<length>]

=item B<e>[B<nter>] [I<segment>B<:>][I<offset>] [I<value> ...]

=item B<i>[B<nb>] | B<inw> [I<address>]

=item B<ou>[B<t>] | B<outw> [I<address>] [I<value>]

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<BZK> is an option ROM for IBM PC & compatibles that provides a simple
monitor/shell. It allows reading & writing into memory and I/O ports and no
more than that.

It installs itself as a handler for I<Interrupt 18h>, which is called upon
a failed attempt to boot from Floppy or Winchester. On an IBM PC it
ordinarily runs the ROM BASIC interpreter (arguably more useful than this
tool!), but on compatibes it typically just halts the computer with an
error message ("No bootable device." or "NO ROM BASIC - SYSTEM HALTED").

The reason this tool exists is that I needed a small (under 6K) ROM monitor
that I could use to fiddle with I/O port on a diskless machine and
I couldn't find any. It was written in a hurry, which is why it is neither
efficient nor elegant. Perhaps it could still be useful to someone else.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<d>[B<ump>] [I<segment>B<:>][I<offset>] [I<length>]

Inspect memory. If I<segment> is omitted, last one is reused. If I<offset>
is omitted, last one + last I<len> is assumed. Default of 128 bytes are
dumpd if I<length> is not specified.

=item B<e>[B<nter>] [I<segment>B<:>][I<offset>] [I<value> ...]

Write memory. If I<segment> is omitted, last one is reused. If I<offset>
is omitted, it proceeds wherever last B<dump> or B<enter> left off.
If I<value> is not set, BZK will repeatedly ask for values to enter into
memory until a blank line is entered.

=item B<i>[B<nb>] | B<inw> [I<address>]

Read I/O port I<address>. B<inb> reads an 8-bit character, while B<inw>
reads a 16-bit word.

=item B<ou>[B<t>] | B<outw> [I<address>] I<value>

Write I<value> into I/O port I<address>. If I<address> is not given, the
last one used by B<in> or B<out> is reused.

=back

=head1 BUGS

The tool is generally rather hacky. Sometimes there's a reason for that
(e.g. size), but more likely it's laziness.

Featues missing: Jumping to an address, setting registers, calling BIOS
routines. Patches welcome.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item * Lubomir Rintel <L<lkundrak@v3.sk>>

=back

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

The source code repository can be obtained from
L<https://github.com/lkundrak/bzk>. Bug fixes and feature
ehancements licensed under same conditions as badcat are welcome
via GIT pull requests.
